README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy">
    <img src="images/logo.svg" alt="Logo" height="80">
  </a>

  <p align="center">
    Tiny, expandable and simple to use composition based JS template engine 
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a></li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

## About The Project

There are several amazing JS template engines out there, but most of them require multiple dependencies, must be pre-built and hard to expand if you need something specific. I wanted something tiny, reusable, and capable of rendering in real time with good performance. jepy solve all of these issues while keeping it size to the minimum

Here is what you get:
* It is less than 2KB minimised
* It doesn't require pre-building and doesn't have any external dependencies
* This will provide you with powerful tools to create even the most complicated templates while making them reusable and expandable

The things you don't get:
* It definitely does not work with IE11 (it is based on [classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)). Fortunately, it is mostly extinct with ~0.25% worldwide market share
* It might not work with really old Edge Legacy versions. These shouldn't be out in the wild anymore with the automatic updates, but possible if you didn't have any update from 2016

I do not consider this a disadvantage, but you may. Since Microsoft has already stopped supporting [IE11](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/internet-explorer-11) and the non-Chrome based [Edge Legacy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-edge-legacy), I would prefer not to bother supporting these.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Usage

Build your own, use the "dist" folder's prebuilt JavaScript file or add the following to your page:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jepyio/jepy/dist/jepy.min.js"></script>
```

### Building blocks

You can create your templates with the following building blocks. If you want to see how these are used together, go visit the examples page

#### jepy.Placeholder

Maybe the most powerful and adaptable building block available. This will fulfil most of your needs as a standalone logic and will cover what most template engines do. It could replace placeholders with an escaped and raw value or add partials to insert a text, Block or execute a function on the parameters to render your placeholder value. This supports parameter paths so you can use the following format to point to a value "first-level.second-level.third-level...". 

##### jepy.Placeholder with raw value

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder('<div>%{text}</div>');
placeholderBlock.render({
    text: '<img src="test.jpg">'
});
// output: <div><img src="test.jpg"></div>
```

##### jepy.Placeholder with escaped value

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder('<div>${values.text}</div>');
placeholderBlock.render({
    values: {
        text: '<img src="test.jpg">'
    }
});
// output: <div>&#60;img src=&#34;test.jpg&#34;&#62;</div>
```

##### jepy.Placeholder with partials

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder(
    '@{partialOne}@{partialTwo}@{partialThree}',
    {
        partialOne: '<img ',
        partialTwo: new jepy.Placeholder('src="${imageUrl}"'),
        partialThree: (params) => params.endChar
    }
);
placeholderBlock.render({
    imageUrl: 'test.jpg',
    endChar: '>'
});
// output: <img src="test.jpg">
```

#### jepy.Simple

This is the most basic building block, with no performance implications. The text you specified will be returned. Nothing flashy, but practical for jepy.Conditional and jepy.Composite, because these require a Block to render. This may be replaced with jepy.Placeholder, although with a little performance impact.

```javascript
const simpleBlock = new jepy.Simple('<div>Hello World</div>');
simpleBlock.render(); 
// output: <div>Hello World</div>
```

#### jepy.Conditional

This is your "if ... else ..." building block. It needs a function to check the condition on the params, a Block when the condition is true, and an optional Block when the condition is false. This condition function can be as simple or complicated as you want, so it should meet all your needs.

```javascript
// without optional "else"
const conditionalBlock = new jepy.Conditional(
    (params) => params.who !== undefined,
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>')
);
conditionalBlock.render();
// output: 

conditionalBlock.render({
    who: 'World'
});
// output: <div>Hello World</div>

// with "else"
const conditionalBlock = new jepy.Conditional(
    (params) => params.who !== undefined,
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>'),
    new jepy.Simple('<div>Sorry, I don\'t have your name</div>')
);
conditionalBlock.render();
// output: <div>Sorry, I don\'t have your name</div>

conditionalBlock.render({
    who: 'Adam'
});
// output: <div>Hello Adam</div>
```

#### jepy.Repeating

This is your "foreach ..." building block. This needs a path (same format as the placeholders) to an array parameter, a Block to render the values of the array and an optional function to modify or add parameters. By default only the item parameters will be passed to the Block, so you may need to add this optional function to pass other parameters

```javascript
// without parameter modifier function
const repeatingBlock = new jepy.Repeating(
    'items',
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${name}</div>')
);
repeatingBlock.render({
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            name: 'first'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            name: 'second'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div>#1 first</div><div>#2 second</div>

// with parameter modifier
const repeatingBlock = new jepy.Repeating(
    'items',
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${colour} ${name}</div>'),
    (item, params) => {
        item.name = params.itemName;
        return item;
    }
);
repeatingBlock.render({
    itemName: 'pencil',
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            colour: 'green'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            colour: 'red'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div>#1 green pencil</div><div>#2 red pencil</div>
```

#### jepy.Composite

This is used to stich together multiple Blocks into one. You can use this to make complex and extendable templates

```javascript
const compositeBlock = new jepy.Composite([
    new jepy.Simple('<div>'),
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>'),
    new jepy.Repeating(
        'items',
        new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${name}</div>')
    ),
    new jepy.Simple('</div>'),
]);
compositeBlock.render({
    who: 'World',
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            name: 'first'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            name: 'second'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div><div>Hello World</div><div>#1 first</div><div>#2 second</div></div>
```

#### jepy.Callback

Use this if you want something with complicated logic that is also self-contained. This will return the text produced by the callback function that was passed on initialisation.

```javascript
const callbackBlock = new jepy.Callback((params) => {
    const itemCount = params.items.length;
    const singularOrPlural = (noun, counter) => (counter > 1 ? noun + 's' : noun);
    const basketBlock = new jepy.Placeholder(
        '<div>You have ${itemCount} ${itemText} in your basket</div>'
    );
    return basketBlock.render({
        itemCount: itemCount,
        itemText: singularOrPlural('item', itemCount)
    });
});
callbackBlock.render({
    items: [
        'pineapple',
        'pen'
    ]
});
// output: <div>You have 2 items in your basket</div>
```

#### jepy.Cached

It will return the cached value of a Block on subsequent render requests to boost the performance. You can validate against this cached value with the optional validation callback in case the value need to be updated on param changes. Without the validation callback the cached value will never update for that run session. This could be useful if you cache something that should be static. Do not cache a block that only rendered once as it won't give you any advantage.

```javascript
const cachedBlock = new jepy.Cached(
    new jepy.Composite([
        new jepy.Callback(
            (params) => params.name === undefined
                ? ''
                : 'Hello ' + params.name + '.'
        ),
        new jepy.Simple('This is a test')
    ]),
    (params, block) => {
        const isValid = block.name === params.name;
        if (!isValid) {
            block.name = params.name
        }
        return isValid;
    }
);
const templateParams = {
    name: 'Adam'
};
cachedBlock.render(templateParams);
// output (non-cached, rendered in runtime): Hello Adam. This is a test
cachedBlock.render(templateParams);
// output (returned from cache): Hello Adam. This is a test
cachedBlock.render();
// output (non-cached, rendered in runtime): This is a test
cachedBlock.render();
// output (returned from cache): This is a test
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Roadmap

- [x] Add basic building blocks and Block interface for custom classes
- [x] Improve the "Usage" part of this README 
- [ ] Add optional parser to generate and cache blocks based on a simple template format 

See the [open issues](https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contributing

Your support is **greatly appreciated**! If you have ideas for enhancements, please fork the repository and submit a pull request to the "development" branch. Remember to execute "npm run test" before committing to ensure that everything is still working! You can alternatively create a new issue with the tag "enhancement". Don't forget to star the project! Thank you once more!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contact

Sandor - sandor@jepy.io

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

v1.3.2 - fixing module settings and added a section to README about using this as a module

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy">
    <img src="images/logo.svg" alt="Logo" height="80">
  </a>

  <p align="center">
    Tiny, expandable and simple to use composition based JS template engine 
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a></li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

## About The Project

There are several amazing JS template engines out there, but most of them require multiple dependencies, must be pre-built and hard to expand if you need something specific. I wanted something tiny, reusable, and capable of rendering in real time with good performance. jepy solve all of these issues while keeping it size to the minimum

Here is what you get:
* It is less than 2KB minimised
* It doesn't require pre-building and doesn't have any external dependencies
* This will provide you with powerful tools to create even the most complicated templates while making them reusable and expandable

The things you don't get:
* It definitely does not work with IE11 (it is based on [classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)). Fortunately, it is mostly extinct with ~0.25% worldwide market share
* It might not work with really old Edge Legacy versions. These shouldn't be out in the wild anymore with the automatic updates, but possible if you didn't have any update from 2016

I do not consider this a disadvantage, but you may. Since Microsoft has already stopped supporting [IE11](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/internet-explorer-11) and the non-Chrome based [Edge Legacy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-edge-legacy), I would prefer not to bother supporting these.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Install

Build your own, use the "dist" folder's prebuilt files or use one of the following options.

### CDN

You may add jepy to your site using CDN by including the following code on your site:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jepyio/jepy/dist/jepy.min.js"></script>
```

### npm

Run the following to add jepy to your project:

```
npm install jepy --save
```

## Usage

You can create your templates with the following building blocks. If you want to see how these are used together, go visit the examples page

### jepy.Placeholder

Maybe the most powerful and adaptable building block available. This will fulfil most of your needs as a standalone logic and will cover what most template engines do. It could replace placeholders with an escaped and raw value or add partials to insert a text, Block or execute a function on the parameters to render your placeholder value. This supports parameter paths so you can use the following format to point to a value "first-level.second-level.third-level...". 

#### jepy.Placeholder with raw value

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder('<div>%{text}</div>');
placeholderBlock.render({
    text: '<img src="test.jpg">'
});
// output: <div><img src="test.jpg"></div>
```

#### jepy.Placeholder with escaped value

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder('<div>${values.text}</div>');
placeholderBlock.render({
    values: {
        text: '<img src="test.jpg">'
    }
});
// output: <div>&#60;img src=&#34;test.jpg&#34;&#62;</div>
```

#### jepy.Placeholder with partials

```javascript
const placeholderBlock = new jepy.Placeholder(
    '@{partialOne}@{partialTwo}@{partialThree}',
    {
        partialOne: '<img ',
        partialTwo: new jepy.Placeholder('src="${imageUrl}"'),
        partialThree: (params) => params.endChar
    }
);
placeholderBlock.render({
    imageUrl: 'test.jpg',
    endChar: '>'
});
// output: <img src="test.jpg">
```

### jepy.Simple

This is the most basic building block, with no performance implications. The text you specified will be returned. Nothing flashy, but practical for jepy.Conditional and jepy.Composite, because these require a Block to render. This may be replaced with jepy.Placeholder, although with a little performance impact.

```javascript
const simpleBlock = new jepy.Simple('<div>Hello World</div>');
simpleBlock.render(); 
// output: <div>Hello World</div>
```

### jepy.Conditional

This is your "if ... else ..." building block. It needs a function to check the condition on the params, a Block when the condition is true, and an optional Block when the condition is false. This condition function can be as simple or complicated as you want, so it should meet all your needs.

```javascript
// without optional "else"
const conditionalBlock = new jepy.Conditional(
    (params) => params.who !== undefined,
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>')
);
conditionalBlock.render();
// output: 

conditionalBlock.render({
    who: 'World'
});
// output: <div>Hello World</div>

// with "else"
const conditionalBlock = new jepy.Conditional(
    (params) => params.who !== undefined,
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>'),
    new jepy.Simple('<div>Sorry, I don\'t have your name</div>')
);
conditionalBlock.render();
// output: <div>Sorry, I don\'t have your name</div>

conditionalBlock.render({
    who: 'Adam'
});
// output: <div>Hello Adam</div>
```

### jepy.Repeating

This is your "foreach ..." building block. This needs a path (same format as the placeholders) to an array parameter, a Block to render the values of the array and an optional function to modify or add parameters. By default only the item parameters will be passed to the Block, so you may need to add this optional function to pass other parameters

```javascript
// without parameter modifier function
const repeatingBlock = new jepy.Repeating(
    'items',
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${name}</div>')
);
repeatingBlock.render({
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            name: 'first'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            name: 'second'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div>#1 first</div><div>#2 second</div>

// with parameter modifier
const repeatingBlock = new jepy.Repeating(
    'items',
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${colour} ${name}</div>'),
    (item, params) => {
        item.name = params.itemName;
        return item;
    }
);
repeatingBlock.render({
    itemName: 'pencil',
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            colour: 'green'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            colour: 'red'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div>#1 green pencil</div><div>#2 red pencil</div>
```

### jepy.Composite

This is used to stich together multiple Blocks into one. You can use this to make complex and extendable templates

```javascript
const compositeBlock = new jepy.Composite([
    new jepy.Simple('<div>'),
    new jepy.Placeholder('<div>Hello ${who}</div>'),
    new jepy.Repeating(
        'items',
        new jepy.Placeholder('<div>#${id} ${name}</div>')
    ),
    new jepy.Simple('</div>'),
]);
compositeBlock.render({
    who: 'World',
    items: [
        {
            id: 1,
            name: 'first'
        },
        {
            id: 2,
            name: 'second'
        }
    ]
});
// output: <div><div>Hello World</div><div>#1 first</div><div>#2 second</div></div>
```

### jepy.Callback

Use this if you want something with complicated logic that is also self-contained. This will return the text produced by the callback function that was passed on initialisation.

```javascript
const callbackBlock = new jepy.Callback((params) => {
    const itemCount = params.items.length;
    const singularOrPlural = (noun, counter) => (counter > 1 ? noun + 's' : noun);
    const basketBlock = new jepy.Placeholder(
        '<div>You have ${itemCount} ${itemText} in your basket</div>'
    );
    return basketBlock.render({
        itemCount: itemCount,
        itemText: singularOrPlural('item', itemCount)
    });
});
callbackBlock.render({
    items: [
        'pineapple',
        'pen'
    ]
});
// output: <div>You have 2 items in your basket</div>
```

### jepy.Cached

It will return the cached value of a Block on subsequent render requests to boost the performance. You can validate against this cached value with the optional validation callback in case the value need to be updated on param changes. Without the validation callback the cached value will never update for that run session. This could be useful if you cache something that should be static. Do not cache a block that only rendered once as it won't give you any advantage.

```javascript
const cachedBlock = new jepy.Cached(
    new jepy.Composite([
        new jepy.Callback(
            (params) => params.name === undefined
                ? ''
                : 'Hello ' + params.name + '.'
        ),
        new jepy.Simple('This is a test')
    ]),
    (params, block) => {
        const isValid = block.name === params.name;
        if (!isValid) {
            block.name = params.name
        }
        return isValid;
    }
);
const templateParams = {
    name: 'Adam'
};
cachedBlock.render(templateParams);
// output (non-cached, rendered in runtime): Hello Adam. This is a test
cachedBlock.render(templateParams);
// output (returned from cache): Hello Adam. This is a test
cachedBlock.render();
// output (non-cached, rendered in runtime): This is a test
cachedBlock.render();
// output (returned from cache): This is a test
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Roadmap

- [x] Add basic building blocks and Block interface for custom classes
- [x] Improve the "Usage" part of this README 
- [ ] Add optional parser to generate and cache blocks based on a simple template format 

See the [open issues](https://github.com/jepyio/jepy/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contributing

Your support is **greatly appreciated**! If you have ideas for enhancements, please fork the repository and submit a pull request to the "development" branch. Remember to execute "npm run test" before committing to ensure that everything is still working! You can alternatively create a new issue with the tag "enhancement". Don't forget to star the project! Thank you once more!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contact

Sandor - sandor@jepy.io

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
